# AES-128 usage with NexPlayerSDK for Android

NexPlayer is capable of decrypting HLS contentes encrypted with AES-128 algorithm, through the embedded key in the manifest or an external one.

## What is AES-128?

AES, also known as Advanced Encryption System, it is an encryption algorithm that can be used to protect specific contents. It is a symmetric algorithm, since the key used for encryption is the same that has to be used for the decryption process. There are different types of AES encryption depending on the size of the key, starting from 128 bits, to 192, up to 256 bits.

The larger the size of the content, the more secure the content. However, it has been shown that 128-bit keys, are also difficult to break and the generating process is very similar to that of bigger keys.

## HLS encryption with AES-128

HLS contents can be encrypted through an AES algorithm with two different ways, regarding the security level:

- **Content encryption**: One single key is used to encrypt the whole stream. In case the key is intercepted, the content will be unprotected.

- **Segment encryption**: Each segment of the content can be encrypted with a different key. This methods are more security to the encrypted stream.

Usually, when there is a general key used, it will appear in the manifest along with the EXT-X-KEY tag. This key is normally served via HTTP.

NexPlayer also provides APIs to set an external key, for those aes-encrypted contents which don't have any key embedded within the manifest.

## How to reproduce AES-128 encrypted contents with NexPlayer

In case that the content has the key in the manifest, there is no need to call any extra API, since NexPlayer engine will manage to decrypt the encrypted segments without the user action.

However, NexPlayer provides a feature to set an external key for an AES-128 encrypted content:

- Implement the *INexAES128KeyListener*, and override the **onKeyRequest** method, returning the byte array obtained from the external key served via HTTP

```java
...
INexAES128KeyListener mKeyRequestListener = new INexAES128KeyListener() {
    @Override
    public byte[] onKeyRequest() {
      NexLog.d(LOG_TAG, "onKeyRequest");
      try {
        byte[] response = nexHTTPUtil.executeGet("https://example.com/streaming.key");

        return response;
      } catch (IOException e) {

      }
      return null;
    }
};
...
mNexPlayer.setKeyRequestListener(mKeyRequestListener);
...
```

This API should be called before calling NexPlayer.open.

Apart from that only setting, there are no extra settings that the player could need in order to reproduce an AES-encrypted content via an external key.

## Things to consider

- AES-128 is only available for HLS contents.
